{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf380
\readonlydoc1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f2\fmodern\fcharset77 Courier;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Oblique;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11100\viewh8700\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\qc

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 QGIS 0.8.0 Preview 1 Release Notes for Macintosh
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 Contents\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
1. Requirements\
2. Included Libraries\
3. Known limitations\
4. GRASS Plugin\
\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 1. Requirements\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
This release of QGIS requires Mac OS X 10.3.9 or 10.4. A PostgreSQL version 7 or 8 server with PostGIS extensions installed is required if using PostgreSQL features.\
\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 2. Included Libraries\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
The following libraries are included with this distribution of QGIS. If you have other versions of these libraries installed, QGIS will ignore your versions and use these.\
\
GDAL 1.3.2 (libgdal.1.10.0.dylib)\
GEOS 2.2.2 (libgeos.2.2.2.dylib)\
PROJ 4.4.9 (libproj.0.5.0.dylib)\
SQLITE3 3.3.6 (libsqlite3.0.8.6.dylib)\
Xerces-C++ 2.7.0 (libxerces-c.27.0.dylib)\
Qt/Mac 4.1.3 (various Qt frameworks)\
JPEG 6b (libjpeg.62.0.0.dylib)\
PNG 1.2.8 (libpng.3.1.2.8.dylib\
Expat 1.95.8 (libexpat.0.5.0.dylib)\
GSL 1.6 (libgsl.0.7.0.dylib, libgslcblas.0.0.0.dylib)\
PostgreSQL 8.1.4 (libpq.4.1.dylib) This client can also access a version 7 server.\
\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 3. Known limitations\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Some dialogs have cosmetic issues with buttons.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
If the International System Preferences Language is changed, it will not affect QGIS until the next login. To use a different language without relogging in, start QGIS from a Terminal session. For example:\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f2 \cf0 qgis.app/Contents/MacOS/qgis --lang it\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 4. GRASS Plugin\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
The GRASS Plugin included in this release is configured to work with the Mac OS X GRASS6 distribution provided by Lorenzo Moretti at http://wwwamb.bologna.enea.it/forgrass/\
\
If GRASS6 is correctly installed, the GRASS plugin will appear in the list when you open the QGIS Plugin Manager. This release of QGIS no longer requires any symbolic links to be changed in order to activate the GRASS plugin.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
To use all the functions of the GRASS plugin, QGIS should be launched from inside GRASS. This can be done in two ways.\
\
One method is to launch QGIS from the GRASS command-line prompt:\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2 \cf0 /Applications/qgis-0.8.0pre1/qgis.app/Contents/MacOS/qgis\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1 \cf0 \
Another method is to add a menu item for QGIS to the GRASS menu bar. To do this, open the file\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2 \cf0 /Applications/Grass/grass60.app/Contents/Resources/grass-6.0.0/etc/dm/menu.tcl\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1 \cf0 using a text editor and add the following three lines just before the line beginning with  "&Help" which should be line 500. (The second line is very long and is probably displayed here on more than one line. It begins with "\{command" and ends with "\} \}".)\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2 \cf0 "&Ext" all options $tmenu \{\
\{command "Open QGIS" \{\} "open QGIS (Quantum GIS) with Grass support enabled" \{\} -command \{ exec $env(GRASS_HTML_BROWSER) "/Applications/qgis-0.8.0pre1/qgis.app" & \} \}\
\}\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1 \cf0 \
After making this edit and launching GRASS, you can select "Open QGIS" from the new Ext (external application) menu.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f3\i \cf0 Thanks to Lorenzo Moretti for providing the GRASS menu information.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\i0 \cf0 \
\
If you try to use the GRASS plugin while not running GRASS, you will be able to open GRASS files but not use GRASS tools. If you have not previously run QGIS with GRASS, you may be prompted for the location of the GRASS directory GISBASE. Because this directory is inside the GRASS application bundle and cannot be directly selected, you should choose Cancel and then run QGIS from inside GRASS. QGIS will remember the GISBASE directory for subsequent launches.\
}