/* ChangeLog,v 1.214 2004/11/12 00:42:21 gsherman Exp */
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Version 1.2.0 'Daphnis'
** Please note that this is a release in our 'cutting edge' release series. As 
** such it contains new features and extends the programmatic interface over 
** QGIS 1.0.x. If stability and long term support is more important to you 
** then cool new and untested features, we recommend that you use a copy 
** of QGIS from our stable 1.0.x release series.
** This release includes over 140 bug fixes and enchancements 
** over the QGIS 1.1.0 release. In addition we have added 
** the following new features:
**
** Editing:
** 
** Editing functionality in QGIS has had a major update in this release. This
** includes the addition of new vector editing tools:
** 
** - delete part of multipart feature
** - delete hole from polygon
** - simplify feature
** - Added a new "node" tool (in advanced digitizing toolbar).
** - New functionality for merging features
** - Added undo/redo functionality for vector layer editing.
** - Added option to show only markers of selected features in editing mode.
** - Change layer's icon in legend to reflext that the layer is editable.
** 
** In addition, there are undo/redo actions in Edit menu, in Advanced digitizing toolbar
** and there is a new dock widget displaying undo stack of active layer.
** 
** About the node tool: It resembles a tool for editing paths by nodes that is
** present in every vector editor. How does it work (in QGIS)? Click on a
** feature, its nodes will be marked by small rectangles. Clicking and dragging a
** node moves it. Double clicking a segment will add a new node. Pressing delete
** key will remove active node. It's possible to select more active nodes at
** once: by clicking and dragging a rectangle. It's possible to select a segment's
** adjacent nodes by clicking on the segment. It's possible to add/remove active
** nodes by using Ctrl when clicking a node or dragging a rectangle
** 
** We recommend that you turn off vertex markers in QGIS options when working with
** this tool: the redraws are much faster and the map is not cluttered with
** markers. 
** 
** Keyboard shortcuts:
** 
** New feature: configure shortcuts for actions within main window of qgis!
** See menu Setting->Configure shortcuts
** 
** Map Composer:
** 
** It is now possible to lock/unlock composer item positions by right mouse click.
** The width and height of the composer map will now remain fixed if user sets the
** composer map extent to the map canvas extent. possibility to display
** current date in composer label by typing (d 'June' yyyy) or similar.
** It is now possible to keep the current layers in a composer map even if further
** layers are added to the main map. Export to PDF in composer is now possible.
** 
** Attribute tables:
** 
** It is now possible to search the attribute table within selected records only.
** General speedups have been made on the attribute table. Setting of field width
** and precision when adding attributes is now possible. Handling of attribute
** types in WFS provider has bee improved.
** 
** Attribute aliases for vector layers are now available. The aliases are shown
** instead of the original field names in the info tool and attribute table to
** make things easier for end users. There is now a GUI for setting edit widgets
** for layer attributes.  A new dialog allows loading a value map from a layer
** (could be non-spatial table too!).  The edit widgets settings will also now
** be respected in the attribute table.
** 
** Plugins:
** 
** - The order of layers in the WMS dialog can now be changed.
** - The eVis plugin, version 1.1.0, has been added to the QGIS project and
**   included as a standard plugin. More information about eVis can be found here:
**   http://biodiversityinformatics.amnh.org/open_source/evis/documentation.php .
** - The interpolation plugin now has the ability to use line layers as constrains
**   for triangulation in interpolation plugin. You can also now save the
**   triangulation to shape file.
** - An new OpenStreetMap provider and plugin have been added to QGIS.
** 
** Projects Management:
** 
** QGIS now includes support for  project relative position of file data sources
** and svgs. The saving of relative paths of file data sources is optional.
** 
** PostGIS & the PostgreSQL Provider:
** 
** You can now select the SSL mode when adding a new DB connection. Turning off
** SSL encryption can greatly improve performance of PostGIS data loading where
** connection security is not required. Support has been added for more native
** types and for setting of column comments.
** 
** Symbology enhancements:
** 
** - allow refresh of symbols via popup menu on the renderer's symbol selection
** - add support for data defined symbols
** - add support for font symbol markers (only data defined - no gui yet)
** - add symbol size in map units (ie. symbols that keep the size in mapunits
**   independent of the mapscale)
** 
** Command line arguments:
** 
** Added command line argument support on windows.
** Enhancement of command line arguments:
** - allow given snapshot sizes
** - allow suppression of splash screen
** - capture map decorations from plugins on snapshots
** 
** Grass:
** 
** There is a new GRASS shell. Also there have been many cleanups and consistency
** updates.
** 
Version 1.1.0 'Pan'
** Please note that this is a release in our 'unstable' release series. As 
** such it contains new features and extends the programmatic interface over 
** QGIS 1.0.x. If stability and long term support is more important to you 
** then cool new and untested features, we recommend that you use a copy 
** of QGIS from our stable 1.0.x release series.
** This release includes many bug fixes and enchancements 
** over the QGIS 1.0.0 release. In addition we have added 
** the following new features:
** Updates to translations.
** Improvements and polishing of the Python plugin installer. Switch to the
** new official QGIS repository.
** Improvements to themes so that plugins and other parts of the GUI are
** better supported when switching themes. Addition of the new GIS icon
** theme.
** Improvements to Debian packaging to better support Debian standard
** requirements.
** Support usb: as a GPS device under Linux.
** WMS plugin now supports sorting and shows nested layers as a tree. WMS
** provider also support 24bit png images now. The WMS plugin also now
** provides a search interface for finding WMS servers.
** Added svg point symbols symbols from Matt Amos (with his permission).
** Improvements to proxy support and support of proxy in WFS provider. The
** WFS provider now also shows progress information as it is fetching data.
** Improvements the PostGIS client support. Massive speedups in PostGIS layer 
** rendering can now be achieved by disabling SSL in the connection editor.
** Mapserver Export improvements for continuous color support.
** Added tools menu - the fTools plugins are now part of the core QGIS
** plugins and will always be installed by default. 
** Improvements to the print composer including object alignment options. It
** is also now possible to print maps as postcript raster or vector. For
** python programmers, the composer classes now have python bindings.
** When using File - Save as image, the saved image is now georeferenced.
** Projection selector now includes quick selection of recently used CRS's.
** Continuous color renderer supports point symbols now too.
** Improved CMake support for building against dependencies from OSGEO4W
** (Windows only). Addition of an XCode project of developers building under
** OSX.
** Updates and cleanups to the GRASS toolbox.
** Changes in open vector dialog to support all drivers available in ogr
** including database and protocol drivers. This brings with it support for
** SDE, Oracle Spatial, ESRI personal geodatabase and many more OGR
** supported data stores. Note that in some cases accessing these may
** require third party libraries to be on your system.
** The middle mouse button can now be used for panning. 
** A new, faster attribute table implementation.
** Numerous cleanups to the user interface.
** A new provider was added for spatiallite - a geodatabase-in-a-file
** implementation based on the SQLITE database.
** Vector overlay support that can draw pie and bar charts over vector
** layers based on attribute data.
Version 1.0.0 'Kore'
** This release includes over 265 bug fixes and enhancements over the 
** QGIS 0.11.0 release. In addition we have made the following changes:
** HIG Compliance improvements for Windows / Mac OS X / KDE / Gnome
** Saving a vector layer or subset of that layer to disk with a different Coordinate Reference System to the original.
** Advanced topological editing of vector data.
** Single click selection of vector features.
** Many improvements to raster rendering and support for building pyramids external to the raster file.
** Overhaul of the map composer for much improved printing support.
** A new 'coordinate capture' plugin was added that lets you click on the map and then cut & paste the coordinates to and from the clipboard
** A new plugin for converting between OGR supported formats was added.
** A new plugin for converting from DXF files to shapefiles was added.
** A new plugin was added for interpolating point features into ASCII grid layers.
** The python plugin manager was completely overhauled, the new version having many improvements, including checking that the version of QGIS running will support a plugin that is being installed.
** Plugin toolbar positions are now correctly saved when the application is closed.
** In the WMS client, WMS standards support has been improved.
** Tidy ups for GRASS integration and support for GRASS 6.4
** Complete API revision - we now have a stable API following well defined naming conventions.
** Ported all GDAL/OGR and GEOS usage to use C APIs only.
Version 0.11.0 'Metis'
** This release includes over 60 bug fixes and enhancements over the 
** QGIS 0.10.0 release. In addition we have made the following changes:
** Revision of all dialogs for user interface consistency
** Improvements to unique value renderer vector dialog
** Symbol previews when defining vector classes
** Separation of python support into its own library
** List view and filter for GRASS toolbox to find tools more quickly
** List view and filter for Plugin Manager to find plugins more easily
** Updated Spatial Reference System definitions
** QML Style support for rasters and database layers
Version 0.10.0 'Io'
** This release includes over 120 bug fixes and enchancements 
** over the QGIS 0.9.1 release. In addition we have added 
** the following new features:
** Improvements to digitising capabilities.
** Supporting default and defined styles (.qml) files for file based 
** vector layers. With styles you can save the symbolisation 
** and other settings associated with a vector layer and they 
** will be loaded whenever you load that layer.
** Improved support for transparency and contrast stretching 
** in raster layers. Support for color ramps in raster layers. 
** Support for non-north up rasters. Many other raster 
** improvements 'under the hood'.
** Updated icons for improved visual consistency.
** Support for migration of old projects to work in newer QGIS versions.
Version 0.9.2rc1 'Ganymede'
** This release candidate includes over 40 bug fixes and enchancements 
** over the QGIS 0.9.1 release. In addition we have added 
** the following new features:
** Imrovements to digitising capabilities.
** Supporting default and defined styles (.qml) files for file based 
** vector layers. With styles you can save the symbolisation 
** and other settings associated with a vector layer and they 
** will be loaded whenever you load that layer.
** Improved support for transparency and contrast stretching 
** in raster layers. Support for color ramps in raster layers. 
** Support for non-north up rasters. Many other raster 
** improvements 'under the hood'.
Version 0.9.1 'Ganymede'
** This is a bug fix release
** 70 Bugs closed
** Added locale tab to options dialog so that locale can be overridden
** Cleanups and additions to GRASS tools
** Documentation updates
** Improvements for building under MSVC
** Python Plugin installer to install PyQGIS plugins from the repository
Version 0.9 'Ganymede'
** Python bindings - This is the major focus of this release
   it is now possible to create plugins using python. It is also
   possible to create GIS enabled applications written in python 
   that use the QGIS libraries.
** Removed automake build system - QGIS now needs CMake for compilation.
** Many new GRASS tools added (with thanks to http://faunalia.it/)
** Map Composer updates
** Crash fix for 2.5D shapefiles
** The QGIS libraries have been refactored and better organised.
** Improvements to the GeoReferencer

Version 0.8 'Joesephine' .... development version
2006-01-23 [timlinux] 0.7.9.10
** Dropped use of qpicture and resampling for point markers in favour of
qt4.1 qsvgrenderer new goodies
2006-01-09 [timlinux] 0.7.9.8
** Started Mapcanvas branch for Martin
2006-01-09 [timlinux] 0.7.9.8
** Moved plugins into src/plugins
2006-01-08 [timlinux] 0.7.9.8
** moved all sources for gui lib into src/gui
2006-01-08 [gsherman] 0.7.9.7
** Moved providers to the src directory
2006-01-08 [timlinux] 0.7.9.6
** refactored libqgis into core and gui libs.
2006-01-01 [timlinux] 0.7.9.5
** removed community reg plugin and exampl plugins
** refactored composer code into its own lib in src/composer
** renamed libqgsraster to libqgis_raster
** rearranged src/Makefile so app target uses only main.cpp in SOURCES and
links to a new very monolithic lib. Lib will be broken up into smaller bits
over time,
2005-11-30 [timlinux] 0.7.9.4
** Refactored all src/*.ui into src/ui/ dir for cleaner separation of ui's
2005-12-29 [gsherman] 0.7.9.3
** Merged Ui branch into HEAD
2005-11-10 [timlinux] 0.7.9.2
** Ported codebase to qt4 - still many issues to sort out but it builds
2005-11-10 [timlinux] 0.7.9.1
** Merged in 0.7 branch changes with Tom Elwertowskis help
2005-10-13 [timlinux] 0.7.9
** Added capability to generate point and polygon based graticules to the
grid_maker plugin


Version 0.6 'Simon' .... development version
QGIS Change Log
2005-07-03 [morb_au] 0.7.devel2
** Merged changes in the 0.7 release candidate branch (as at "Release-0_7-candidate-pre1") back into the trunk.
2005-05-23 [gsherman] 0.7rc1
** Fixed bookmarks bug related to non-existent user database. The
   database is now properly created if it doesn't exist.
2005-04-12 [timlinux] 0.6devel26
** Added option to vector props dlg to let user change projection
2005-04-21 [timlinux] 0.6devel25
** More updates to qgsspatialrefsys. Changed splash to be a masked widget &
added the xcf masters for the splash. Splash still needs some minor
updating relating to text placement.
2005-04-20 [timlinux] 0.6devel24
** Added logic for reverse mapping a wkt or proj4string to an srsid - not
very well tested at this stage but works for me with my test dataset
2005-04-17 [timlinux] 0.6devel23
** Numerous fixes and clean ups to projection handling
2005-05-15 [morb_au] 0.6devel21
** Fixed a memory leak in the postgres provider when retrieving features
** Raster layers now align to the map canvas with subpixel source accuracy
   (most useful when zooming in very close and the source pixels cover many
   screen pixels)
   
0.6devel20 ?

2005-05-13 [didge] 0.6devel19
** Tweaked makefile stuff and prepared for a release
2005-04-17 [mcoletti] 0.6devel18
** First whack at implementing compensation for opening project files
   with stale data source paths.
2005-04-17 [timlinux] 0.6devel17
** Custom Projection dialog. Various bugfixes plus delete, insert and update of new
   records possible. User projections now whow in projection selector but are
   still not usable
2005-04-16 [ges] 0.6.0devel16
** Fixed bug 1177637 that prevented a PostgreSQL connection from being 
   completely deleted
2005-04-14 [timlinux] 0.6devel15
** Wired up move first and move last buttons on custom projection dialog
2005-04-14 [timlinux] 0.6devel14
** Status bar widgets show text in 8pt arial. Closes bug #1077217
2005-04-13 [timlinux] 0.6devel13
** Show params on proj designer widget when a projection is sleected
2005-04-12 [ges] 0.6.0devel12
** Applied patches from Markus Neteler to allow compilation on Qt 3.1
2005-04-12 [timlinux] 0.6devel12
** Fix for [ 1181249 ] Crash when loading shape files
2005-04-11 [timlinux] 0.6devel11
** Data binding on projection and ellipsoid selector on custom projection
dialog
2005-04-11 [ges] 0.6.0devel10
** Applied patches from Markus Neteler to allow compilation on Qt 3.2
2005-04-11 [ges]
** Fixed default projection (WGS 84) so it is now selected when the 
   project properties dialog is opened and no projection has been set.
2005-04-10 [timlinux] 0.6devel9
** Added custom  projection maker dialog to main app menu. Dialog is still
under construction.
2005-04-09 [ges] 0.6.0devel8
** Fixed problems with the Makefile.am related to the merge of
   Projections_Branch into HEAD
2005-04-09 [ges] 0.6.0devel7
** Merged Projections_Branch into HEAD
	 Problems:
			Polygon outlines are not drawn. This was checked twice and no cause
			was found.

			Projections do not work in all circumstances

			Note that both the proj4 library and sqlite3 are now required. The
			build system has not been modified to test for these yet.

			Qt 3.3.x is required to build this source tree.

			Make sure to increment the EXTRA_VERSION in configure.in when
			committing changes.

			Make sure to update the Changelog with each commit

2005-03-13 [jobi] 0.6.0devel6
- fix for building on 64bit architecture
- fixed dependencies of designer-plugin/stuff

2005-01-29 [gsherman] 0.6.0devel5
** Applied patches from M. Loskot for a build error and missing Q_OBJECT
   macros in qgsspit.h and qgsattributetable.h

2005-01-01 [larsl] 0.6.0devel4
** Fixed a bug that crashed QGIS when loading rasters from a project file, pt 2

2005-01-01 [larsl] 0.6.0devel3
** Fixed a bug that crashed QGIS when loading rasters from a project file
QGIS Change Log

2004-12-30 [mcoletti] 0.6.0devel2
*** Re-factored endian-handling in data providers
*** Re-factored delimited text provider 
*** Made some class members const-correct

2004-12-30 [larsl] 0.6.0devel1
** Implemented getProjectionWKT() in QgsGPXProvider

2004-12-19 [gsherman] 0.6.0rc2
** Updated README
** Added main.cpp so spit builds as standalone and plugin. Makefile.am modified
   so spit binary installs in PREFIX dir

2004-12-19 [timlinux] 0.6.0rc2
** Added Slovak translation from Lubos Balazovic
** Massive documentation updates
** Updates to developer pictures and the about box

2004-12-19 [mhugent]
** providers/ogr/qgsshapefileprovider.cpp: fix for attribute problem
    in ogr provider
2004-12-05 [gsherman] 0.6.0rc2
** Fixed bug 1079392 that caused QGIS to crash when a query was entered that
   resulted in the layer being created with no records  
** Additional validation of the SQL query was added to the query builder.
   When Ok is clicked on the builder dialog, the query is sent to the
   database and the result checked to ensure that it will create a valid
   PostreSQL layer
** Added tr to a number of strings that weren't prepared for translation in
   the vector dialog properties code
** Created QgsDataSourceURI structure to hold all the pertinent information
   associated with a PostgreSQL layer connection, including host, database,
   table, geometry column, username, password, port, and sql where clause.

2004-12-03 [gsherman] 0.6.0rc1
** Commented out excessive debug statements in the postgres provider

2004-12-03 [gsherman] 0.6.0rc1
** Changing the SQL query for a PostgreSQL layer using the query builder 
   from the vector layer properties dialog now properly updates the mapcanvas
   extents and feature count.
** Fix for crash in pg buffer plugin (bug 1077412). Crash is due to the
   addition of sql where clause support in the postgres provider. The provider
   was not checking to see if a sql key was included in the datasource uri and
   thus copying the entire URI as the where clause.
** The .shp extension is now added the new vector layer name (if not specified
   by the user).  The .qgs extension is now added to a project file when using
   save or save as (if not specified by the user). 

2004-12-01 [gsherman] 0.5.0devel30
** Added functions to qgsdataprovider.h to support updating the feature count
   and extents. To be supported, these functions must be implemented in the data
   provider implementation. The default implementations don't do anything useful.
** QgsVectorLayer now has functions for requesting feature count, extent
   update, and the subset defintiion string (usually sql) from the underlying
   data provider. Providers do not need to implement these functions unless they
   want to support subsetting the layer via a layer definition query or other
   means.

2004-11-27 [larsl] 0.5.0devel30
** Fixed feature addition in GPX layers, it now works again

2004-11-22 [mcoletti] 0.5.0devel29
** QgsProject properties now re-designed to be similar to QSettings
  
2004-11-20 [timlinux] 0.5.0devel28
** Added the capability to interrupt the rendering of the currently drawing map
layer by pressing the escape key. Repeat and rinse to interrupt drawing of all
vector layers. Not implemented for raster layers yet.

2004-11-11 [gsherman] 0.5.0devel27
** First pass at a PostgreSQL query builder. This is not entirely
   functional yet. Fields for a table are displayed and sample or all
   values can be displayed. Double-clicking on a field name or sample
   value pastes it into the sql query box at the current cursor
   position. The test function is not implemented yet nor is the type
   checking to allow auto quoting of text values in the sql statement.

2004-11-19 [mcoletti] 0.5.devel26
** Changed QgsProject properties interface to be more similar to
   QSettings.  New properties are emitted to file.  There is a known
   bug with QStringLists in that thre're redundant copies written to
   the file.  New properties aren't read yet.  Will be adding code
   for that over next couple days.

2004-11-17 [timlinux] 0.5.0devel25
**Added a little checkbox to the bottom right of status bar that 
when checked will suppress rendering of layers in main canvas 
and overview canvas, This is useful if you want to load a bunch 
of layers and tweak their symbology etc without having delays 
caused by rerendering everything after each change you make.

2004-11-16 [larsl] 0.5.0devel24
** Reimplemented nextFeature() so features are visible again

2004-11-13 [larsl] 0.5.0devel23
** Changed QgsIdentifyResults and QgsVectorLayer to show all attributes
   automatically (expand the feature node) if only one feature is identified

2004-11-11 [gsherman] 0.5.0devel22
** Added ifdef's for WIN32 around dynamic_casts in the vector renderer
  dialogs. Even though rtti is enabled, use of dynamic casts causes seg
  faults under WIN32.

2004-11-09 [timlinux] 0.5.0devel21
** Added options to graticule builder to allow you to define origin and
enpoints and to set the graticule size at < 1 degree. Note that there is
little error checking in there still, so putting in dodgy numbers may cause
qgis to crash.

2004-11-04 [timlinux] 0.5.0devel20
** Added scale dependent visibility support to both raster and vector layers.

2004-11-02 [larsl] 0.5.0devel19
** Added menu item for creating an empty GPX file

2004-10-31 [timlinux] 0.5.0devel18
** Fix bug #1047002 (label buffer enabled / disabled checkbox not working)

2004-10-30 [larsl] 0.5.0devel17
** qgsfeature.h is needed in qgsvectordataprovider.cpp since it's deleting
   a QgsFeature, fixed it

2004-10-29 [larsl] 0.5.0devel16
** Added defaultValue() in QgsVectorLayer and QgsVectorDataProvider,
   implemented it in the GPX provider

2004-10-29 [stevehalasz] 0.5.0devel15
* Write layers to projects files in the proper order by iterating over the
  zOrder in the map canvas. Fixes bug #1054332.

* Remove the <zorder> tag from the dtd. It is superfluous.

2004-10-26 [mcoletti] 0.5.0devel13
** regarding saving and restoring units in project files.
** made many minor bug fixes and tidying up

2004-10-22 [larsl] 0.5.0devel12
** Removed more unused code in the GPS plugin, changed the GPS plugin source
   to follow the coding standards better

2004-10-22 [larsl] 0.5.0devel11
** Some changes in the GPS plugin:
   * Changed the tooltip of the action from "GPS Importer" to "GPS Tools"
   * Removed some old unused code
   * Made the upload/download tools much more flexible by letting users
     specifying "devices" with upload and download commands
   * Remember the last used device and port for uploads and downloads
   * Remember the last directory that a GPX file was loaded from

2004-10-20 [mcoletti] 0.5.0devel10
** merged in qgsproject-branch
  
2004-10-19 [larsl] 0.5.0devel9
** Changed GPX attribute names from three letter abbreviations to more
   userfriendly whole words

2004-10-19 [larsl] 0.5.0devel8
** Changed mFeatureType in qgsgpxprovider.cpp from a QString to an enum to
   avoid unnecessary string comparisons

2004-10-18 [gsherman] 0.5.0devel7
** Added test for GEOS to acinclude.m4 and configure.in
** Added members/methods in preparation for support of scale dependent
   rendering
** Added Display tab to the vector dialog to allow setting of min and max
   scales for rendering 

2004-10-18 [larsl] 0.5.0devel6
** Removed duplicate code, added bounds calculation for digitized features in the GPX provider

2004-10-18 [larsl] 0.5.0devel5
** Changes to the GPX provider:
   * Implemented isEditable(), isModified(), commitChanges(), and rollBack()
   * Removed the useless lat and lon attributes in waypoint features
   * Cleaned up the attribute parsing in addFeature()
   GPX editing should now work again.

2004-10-17 [gsherman] 0.5.0devel4
** OGR provider now uses GEOS to select features when doing identify and
   select operations.

2004-10-16 [gsherman] 0.5.0devel3
** Fixed OGR filters in the add layer dialog box using fix in qgsproject-branch
** Reverted images in qgisappbase.ui to XPM so QGIS will compile on Qt < 3.x

2004-10-11 [gsherman] 0.5.0devel2
** Added man page (qgis.man) that gets installed in man1 as qgis.1

2004-10-09 [gsherman] 0.5.0devel1
** Changed name to Simon
** Added Simon splash screen
** Fixed command line loading bug to eliminate bogus warning for vector layers
** Modified splashscreen.cpp to allow specification of x,y for text drawing on
   the splash image
** Imperfectly fixed problem where postgis attributes aren't displayed if the
   primary key is not of type int4 (bug 1042706).
** Added Latvian translation file (untranslated at present)

2004-09-23 [larsl] 0.4.0devel38
** Removed support for loading Geocaching.com LOC files

2004-09-20 [tim] 0.4.0devel37
** Shameless acknowledge not keeping this file up to date!
** Sort out clipping problems with labeller

2004-09-20 [larsl] 0.4.0devel36
** Added the element definition of uniquevaluemarker to qgis.dtd

2004-09-20 [larsl] 0.4.0devel35
** Re-fixed bug 987874, the provider will now skip geometry-less features
   but keep reading other features

2004-09-20 [larsl] 0.4.0devel34
** Fixed bug 987874 which caused QGIS to crash when showing the attribute
   table for shapefile layers with features with NULL geometry 
   (GetGeometryRef() returns NULL) - the OGR provider now treats features
   with NULL geometry as NULL features, i.e. EOF

2004-09-15 [larsl] 0.4.0devel33
** Fixed QgsUValMaDialogBase so the listbox doesn't take up all of the space

2004-09-14 [larsl] 0.4.0devel32
** Added the SVG icons in src/svg/gpsicons

2004-09-13 [larsl] 0.4.0devel31
** Added the unique value marker renderer

2004-09-12 [larsl] 0.4.0devel30
** Scale down SVG symbols
** Display rasters without geotransform info as "1 pixel = 1 unit"

2004-09-12 [larsl] 0.4.0devel29
** Fixed bug in scale_bar plugin that would cause QGIS to freeze when a
   layer with one point was loaded

2004-09-12 [larsl] 0.4.0devel28
** The device lists in the GPS plugin should show /dev/ttyUSB* devices too
   now (for serial USB adapters) on Linux

2004-09-08 [larsl] 0.4.0devel27
** Fixed bug that crashed QGIS when the user selected records in the attribute
   table for a layer that used the single marker renderer

2004-09-01 [mcoletti] 0.4.0devel26
Start of new qgs project file class.  Obviously work-in-progress.

Committed for back-up sanity and to elicit comments from the bored.

2004-09-01 [mcoletti] 0.4.0devel25
QgsRect : 

  - no longer waste copy of QgsPoint in ctor

2004-08-14 [gsherman] 0.4.0devel23
** Moved plugin toolbar to the qgisappbase toolbar container rather than
  dynamically allocating it. This allows the state/docking position gets
  restored each time the app starts.

2004-08-26 [mcoletti] 0.4.0devel22
qgisapp.cpp:

 - fixed bug 1017079, where loading projects would cause app to crash

qgsprojectio.cpp:

 - minor code change; commented out superfluous code

2004-08-26 [mcoletti] 0.4.0devel21
Now explicitly check for command line arguments via $# instead of $@.  Using
$@ caused the script to crash when more than one command line argument was
passed in.  (E.g., specifying multiple files for CVS commits.)

2004-08-25 [mcoletti] 0.4.0devel20
Now explicitly use QgsMapLayerRegistry instance instead of data members.  (Of
which two both referred to the same instance.)

2004-08-25 [mcoletti] 0.4.0devel19
Deleted two data members that referred to the Singleton object
QgsMapLayerRegistry.  Now explicitly use QgsMapLayerRegistry::instance(),
which emphasizes that you're accessing a Singleton.

2004-08-22 [larsl] 0.4.0devel18
** Fixed a bug that caused SVG markers to be huge when oversampling was turned on

2004-08-22 [larsl] 0.4.0devel17
** Fixed transparency in SVG sumbols

2004-08-21 [larsl] 0.4.0devel16
** Added a black frame around the white rectangle around SVG symbols to make it look cleaner, can be removed when transparency is fixed

2004-08-20 [larsl] 0.4.0devel15
** Added more attribute fields to the GPX provider: cmt, desc, src, sym, number, urlname

2004-08-20 [larsl] 0.4.0devel14
** Forgot to calculate bounds for user-added routes and tracks in the GPX
   provider, which caused unpredictable drawing bugs since selection wouldn't
   work. Fixed.

2004-08-14 [gsherman] 0.4.0devel13
** Moved common toobar icons to drop-down tool menus. This includes the
   overview, hide/show all, and capture tools

2004-08-18 [jobi] 0.4.0devel12
** added Italian translation thanx to Maurizio Napolitano
** updated all translations

2004-08-17 [larsl] 0.4.0devel11
** Implemented GPX file writing - GPX layers are now written back to file
   when features are added

2004-08-17 [larsl] 0.4.0devel10
* More digitizing support for the GPX provider. Routes and tracks can now be 
  created. Nothing is written to file yet.

2004-08-14 [gsherman] 0.4.0devel9
** Added mouse wheel zoom. Moving wheel forward zooms in by a factor of 2.

2004-08-12 [gsherman] 0.4.0devel8
** Rearranged capture icons and added them to the MapNavigation action group
   so that the icons remain depressed while the tool is active. (bugs
   994274 and 994272)
** Fixed preferences bug (992458) that caused themes to disappear when setting
   options.
 
2004-07-19 [gsherman] 0.4.0devel7
** Fixed broken setDisplayField function in qgsvectorlayer
** Added display/label field handling. Field is now set when the layer is
   added by examining the fields and attempting to make a "smart" choice. The
   user can later change this field from the layer properties dialog. This field
   is used as the item name in the identify box (top of the tree for each feature
   and its attributes) and will eventually be used in labelling features.
** Cleanup of postgres add layer dialog 
** Removed excessive debug output from qgsfeature 

2004-07-18 [larsl] 0.4.0devel6
** Changed Graduated Marker renderer to use the SVG cache

2004-07-17 [larsl] 0.4.0devel5
** Added SVG cache and started using it in the Single Marker renderer

2004-07-10 [larsl] 0.4.0devel4
** Added code to QgsProjectIo that saves and loads the provider key of a vector
   layer in the project file, so delimited text layers and GPX layers can be
   saved in a project. Haven't tested for grass vector layers, but it should
   work.

2004-07-09 [gsherman] 0.4.0devel3
** First pass at defining PostgreSQL layers using a where clause in the
   data provider. UI may need some work. When adding a PG layer, double-
   click on the layer name to define the where clause. Do not include the
   where keyword
2004-07-05 [ts] 0.4.0devel2
** Added option for forcing redraw when adding a raster - intended for use by
   plugins.

2004-07-05 [larsl] 0.4.0devel1
** Moved lots of code from PluginGui to Plugin in the GPS plugin, use signals
   and slots for communication

2004-06-30 [jobi] 0.3.0devel58
** made ready for release
** added interface version for libqgis

2004-06-28 [gsherman] 0.3.0devel57
** Overview extent rectangle bug fix
** Patch (from strk) for PG layer extent calculation
** QgsActetate* documentation updates

2004-06-28 [jobi] 0.3.0devel56
** fix bug #981159
** cleaned warnings

2004-06-28 [ts] 0.3.0devel55
** Added show/hide all layers buttons and menu items

2004-06-27 [larsl] 0.3.0devel54
** Enabled GPS upload code again

2004-06-27 [ts] 0.3.0devel53
** Numerous bug fixes and cleanups. 
** Added remove all layers from overview button.

2004-06-26 [ts] 0.3.0devel52
** Extents are now correctly restored when project is loaded

2004-06-24 [ts] 0.3.0devel51
** Completion of projectio fixes to freeze canvas and restore zorder correctly. 
   Small issue with restoring extents properly needs to be resolved still.

2004-06-23 [mcoletti] 0.3.0devel50
Fixed bug whereby one couldn't downcast from QgsMapLayer* to a
QgsVectorLayer*.  Apparently this was because dlopen()'d files didn't have
full access to global variables.  Now plug-ins can use global variable by
linking with -rdynamic and using dlopen()'s RTLD_GLOBAL flag.

2004-06-21 [ts] 0.3.0devel49

** Revised raster stats emiting of progress update to not do it when stats are 
   fetched from cache. QGisApp progress bar now updates as each layer is rendered 
   in the mapCanvas.
   
** Some minor updates to projectio   

2004-06-21 [larsl] 0.3.0devel48
** Hooked up the GPS gui to code that uses gpsbabel to import lots of GPS file
   formats to GPX

2004-06-21 [jobi] 0.3.0devel47
** Added check for wrong UI version to make release
** fixed wrong versions and DOS endlines

2004-06-21 [ts] 0.3.0devel46

** Got tired of always resetting my gidbase dir everytime qgis restarts - 
   added it to qsettings.

2004-06-21 [ts] 0.3.0devel45

** Complete buffering so that bar as well as text will be visible on both 
   light and dark surfaces.

2004-06-21 [ts] 0.3.0devel44

** Fix for bug [ 973922 ] Overview shows layers in wrong order

** Fixed show stopper bug where maplayerregistry wasnt being cleared properly on file new

** Added setZOrder which will be used in next commit to fix projectio zorder problem

2004-06-20 [ts] 0.3.0devel43

** Fix anoying 'mapcanvas isnt freezing while loading rasters' bug

2004-06-19 [ts] 0.3.0devel42

** Add white buffer around scalebar text...buffer around lines to come...

2004-06-18 [larsl] 0.3.0devel41
** Added an option for setting the length of the scale bar to closest
   integer < 10 times power of 10
   
2004-06-16 [ts] 0.3.0devel40

** Win32 support for package path - which will hopefully ensure pyramid and overview mini 
   icons are displayed on legend entry now.

** Beginnings of generic vector file writer - incomplete and doesnt do anything useful 
   yet except has abilty to make a shapefile with a couple of user defined fields e.g. 
   to create a new point shapefile:
    
   QgsVectorFileWriter myFileWriter("/tmp/test.shp", wkbPoint);
   if (myFileWriter.initialise())
   {
     myFileWriter.createField("TestInt",OFTInteger,8,0);
     myFileWriter.createField("TestRead",OFTReal,8,3);
     myFileWriter.createField("TestStr",OFTString,255,0);
     myFileWriter.writePoint(&theQgsPoint);
   }


2004-06-16 [larsl] 0.3.0devel40
** Added skeleton code for importing other GPS file formats using GPSBabel

>>>>>>> 1.136
2004-06-16 [ts] 0.3.0devel39
** Added small icon displayed on raster legend showing whether this layer is in overview 
   or not. This icon needs "petification!". Need to do the ame for vector once I figure 
   out where to put the code!'

2004-06-16 [ts] 0.3.0devel38
** Added new menu / toolbar option to add all loaded layers into the overview.

2004-06-15 [larsl] 0.3.0devel37
** More preparation for GPS upload code
** New function in QgisInterface - getLayerRegistry()

2004-06-14 [ts] 0.3.0devel36
** Added capability for plugins to clear the current project ignoring 
   the project dirty flag (ie force new project).

2004-06-14 [ts] 0.3.0devel35
** Added addRasterLayer(QgsRasterLayer *) to the plugin interface. This allows plugins 
   to construct their own raster object, set its symbolisation and the pass it over 
   to the app to be loaded into the canvas.

2004-06-13 [ts] 0.3.0devel34
** Removed gdal deps in qgisapp.

** Moved raster load stuff to a group at the end of qgisapp.cpp file.

** Removed generically usable raster fns from qgisapp to static methods of qgsrasterlayer.

** Some renaming of variable names etc.

** Added addRaster(QgsRasterLayer *) private method to qgisapp - which is intended for 
   use via plugins that want to load  'ready made' / symbolised raster layer into the mapCanvas.

2004-06-13 [ts] 0.3.0devel33

** Globally changed legen item fonts to arial 10pt for consistency with rest of ui. Will soft
   code in qgsoptions in next release.

2004-06-13 [ts] 0.3.0devel32
** Add version name to splash

2004-06-13 [ts] 0.3.0devel31
** Implemented a new map cursor type : Capture Point (little pencil icon on your toolbar). 
   At the moment clicking on the map in capture point mode will cause QgsMapCanvas to emit 
   an xyClickCoordinate(QgsPoint) signal which is picked up by qgisapp and the coordinates
   are placed into the system clipboard. 

  In release 0.5 this will be extended to provide simple point vector file data capture / 
  digitising facility. This will be implemented by means of a plugin which will utilise the 
  aforementioned xyClickCoordinate(QgsPoint) signal.

2004-06-12 [gsherman] 0.3.0devel30
** Windows support -- lots of changes

2004-06-11 [larsl] 0.3.0devel29
** Let the user choose GPS protocol and feature type to download

2004-06-10 [gsherman] 0.3.0devel28
** Added display of extent rectangle in the overview map. Current
   implementation is not optimized (requires repaint of the overview canvas to
   display updated rectangle)
** Added acetate layer support to the map canvas. Currently there is only one
   acetate object type - QgsAcetateRectangle, which inherits from
   QgsAcetateObject. More acetate types will follow...

2004-06-10 [ts] 0.3.0devel27
** Modified projectio (serialisation and deserialisation of project files) to
   use maplayerregistry and not mapcanvas.

** Implemented state handling of 'showInOverview' property in project io.
2004-06-10 [petebr] 0.3.0devel26
Tidied up the SPIT gui to match the plugin template.
Fixed bug in scale bar which displayed the bar the wrong size!
Fixed all the plugins so they do not do multiple refreshes on exit.
Added color selection for scale bar.

2004-06-09 [mcoletti] 0.3.0devel25
Added support for a feature type name in QgsFeature.  The GDAL/OGR shape file
provider now also provides the feature type name.

2004-06-09 [petebr] 0.3.0devel24
Added the scale bar plugin. My first solo plugin! :-)

2004-06-09 [ts] 0.3.0devel23
Added "Show in overview" option to vector popup menu. 

Removed overview stuff from debug only version of qgisapp.

Did plumbing for enableing disabling layers in overview from popup context menu.

Whoopdeedooo. :-)

All that remains to do now is sort out syncronisation of layer ordering between main map canvas and overview canvas.

2004-06-09 [ts] 0.3.0devel22
** Fixed bug that causes qgis to crash when an empty .dbf is encountered.
** Added transparency slider to raster popup menu.

2004-06-09 [larsl] 0.3.0devel21
** Hid the "GPS download file importer" tab

2004-06-08 [larsl] 0.3.0devel20
** Call GPSBabel using QProcess instead of system(), show a progress bar while
   GPSBabel is running, show the messages printed to GPSBabel's stderr if
   something goes wrong

2004-06-08 [larsl] 0.3.0devel19
** Started adding GPS data download capability. Only tracklogs from Garmin
   devices for now, routes and waypoints and Magellan support will come in
   the near future.

2004-06-08 [jobi] 0.3.0devel18
** updated ts files
** fixed German translation
** added translation support to external help applications (grid_maker and gpsimporter)

2004-06-07 [gsherman] 0.3.0devel17
** Added update threshold to user options. Update threshold defines the number
   features to read before updating the map display (canvas). If set to zero
   the display is not updated until all features have been read.
        
2004-06-07 [larsl] 0.3.0devel16
** Changed some calls to QMessageBox::question() to QMessageBox::information()
   since Qt 3.1.2 doesn't have question()

2004-06-07 [ts] 0.3.0devel15
** Implemented map overview using maplayers rather than snapshots of a raster layer.

** Implemented QgsMapLayerRegistry  - s singleton object that keeps track of
   loaded layers. When a layer is added an entry is made in the registry. When a
   layer is removed, the registry emits a layerWillBeRemoved signal that is
   connected to any mapvcanvas, legend etc that may be using the layer. The
   objects using the layer can then remove any reference they make to the layer -
   after which the registry deletes the layer object.

** This fixes a problem with adding an overview map which caused qgis to crash
   when a layer was removed because it was trying to delete the same pointer
   twice.

** Added a better implementation of the overview map below map legend.

** Refactoring in qgis app - all private members now adhere to qgis naming
   conventions (prefixed with m).


** Import Note *** ONLY THE MAPLAYER REGISTRY SHOULD DELETE QgsMapLayer::LayerType NOW ***

2004-06-03 [ts] 0.3.0devel14
** Added getPaletteAsPixmap function to raster and display on raster props
   dialog. Also added gdaldatatype to raster props metadata dialog.

2004-06-04 [jobi] 0.3.0devel13
** fixed tims typo with GDAL_LDADD
** cleaned pluginnames

2004-06-03 [jobi] 0.3.0devel12
** fixed bug #965720 by adding math.h for gcc 3.4 problems

2004-06-02 [ts] 0.3.0devel11
** Changed maplayer draw() and its subclasses vectorlayer and rasterlayer to
not need src parameter (this can be obtained from painter->device()).

** More work on print system - still only works well on A4 landscape.

** Northarrow and copyright label plugins now hidethemselves before emitting
  update signals when ok is pressed.

** QGSMapCanvas can now return the (last calculated) scale using getScale

** QGSMapCanvas Impl struct rename to CanvasProperties. QgsMapCanvas impl_
   member renamed to mCanvasProperties.

2004-05-31 [ts] 0.3.0devel10
** Added basic print capability to qgis....consider this a work in progress.
2004-05-31 [gsherman] 0.3.0devel9
**Changed QgsIdentifyResultsBase to inherit from QWidget instead of QDialog
  so window position can be saved/restored from user settings each time.
**Changed qgis.h int version number to 300 (should have been done at release) 

2004-05-30 [ts] 0.3.0devel8
** Fix poorly placed status text on splash screen.

2004-05-27 [gsherman] 0.3.0devel7
** Fixed schema problem with the spit plugin

2004-05-27 [jobi] 0.3.0devel7
** cleanup of gcc warnings

2004-05-27 [petebr] 0.3.0devel6
** Altered buttons on GUI to a standardised layout - HELP - APPLY - OK - CANCEL

2004-05-26 [gsherman] 0.3.0devel5
** Added theme selection to the user preferences dialog. Currently there
   is only one theme (default) available

2004-05-26 [gsherman] 0.3.0devel4
** Added theme support for loading png icons during startup. This solves
   ugly icon problem when encoded as xpm in the ui files. See comments
   in the QgisApp::settheme() function for details

2004-05-26 [larsl] 0.3.0devel3
** Added some calls to std::string::c_str() to hopefully make Qt without STL 
   happy

2004-05-26 [larsl] 0.3.0devel2


2004-05-26 [larsl] 0.3.0devel1
** Fixed a bug that caused the legend checkboxes to always be unchecked when
   using Qt 3.1.2 by removing QgsLegendItem::setOn(), don't know how this
   affects newer Qt

2004-05-25 [larsl] 0.2.0devel37
** Show the legend widgets in debug mode too

2004-05-25 [larsl] 0.2.0devel36
** Fixed some more instances of the same bug in raster layer

2004-05-25 [ts] 0.2.0devel35
Disable overview widget for release. Minor bugfix in rasterlayer picker up by
Larsl which is only encountered bu i8n users. Miscellaneous other fixes
including proper rotation support for north arrows in all 4 corners of
display, inproved refresh behaviour of n-arrow and copyright plugin, better
state hadnling for copyright plugin.

2004-05-25 [larsl] 0.2.0devel34
** Updated all ts files and translated new messages in the swedish file

2004-05-25 [larsl] 0.2.0devel33
** Updated the swedish translation

2004-05-25 [larsl] 0.2.0devel32
** Resaved plugins/copyright_label/pluginguibase.ui with designer 3.1 to fix
   const problem

>>>>>>> 1.120
2004-05-20 [ts] 0.2.0devel31
** First working version for gui pyramid manager (implemented as tab in raster
props). Raster legend entry now stretched to width of legend and show an icon
indicating whether the layer has overviews or not. Added struct and qvaluelist
to raster to store pyramids state in.

2004-05-20 [gsherman] 0.2.0devel30
** Changed release name to Madison in qgis.h
** Added QgsScaleCalculator to libqgis spec in src/Makefile.am
** Additional debug statements in grass data provider

2004-05-20 [ts] 0.2.0devel29
** Added pyramid / no pyramid icon to raster legend entry and made legend 
pixmap fill up all available space in leend width. Added new dir for icons
in src that will be installed to PKGPATH/share/icons

2004-05-20 [ts] 0.2.0devel28
** Changed splash to load picture from file instead of an xpm include. This
will hopefully speed up compile times for folks building on p133's. Changed
splash image to the fluffball ready for 0.3 release.

2004-05-19 [larsl] 0.2.0devel27
** Implemented nextFeature(list<int>&) in the GPX provider

2004-05-18 [gsherman] 0.2.0devel26
** Saved the qgsappbase.ui and the qgsprojectpropertiesbase.ui files (modified
at version 0.2.0devel25) using qt designer 3.1.2 to preserve backward
compatibility.

2004-05-18 [gsherman] 0.2.0devel25
** Changes to implement scale display for map data in feets, meters, and
decimal degrees. A new menu item is added to the Tools menu for selecting
the map units. This setting is currently not saved with a project file.
TODO:Modify qgis.dtd and project save/load to support map units.

NOTE - the qgisapp.ui file was created with qt 3.3.x and WILL NOT WORK
with qt 3.1.2. This will be changed as soon as I can find my 3.1.2 version
of qt designer...

2004-05-18 [ts] 0.2.0devel24
** Relax checking of raster filetype extensions to cater for filetypes where
extension is unpredictable (e.g. grass).
Now I use gdal to quickly check if a file is usable so pretty much anything
gdal iscompile with should get through if you have chosen wildcard
 filter in add raster dialog.
 
2004-05-17 [larsl] 0.2.0devel23
** Added URL parsing and attribute fields for route and track GPX layers

2004-05-17 [ts] 0.2.0devel22
** Added support to Save As Image to save in any QImageIO supported format.
File->SaveAsImage dialog filter list now generated automagically by
interrogating QImageIO for its supportted formats. File->SaveAsImage remembers
last dir used (stored in qsettings). Its supposed to remember last filter used
but there is an issue with that that needs to be resolved.

2004-05-16 [larsl] 0.2.0devel21
** Added url/link parsing to the GPX provider

2004-05-16 [larsl] 0.2.0devel20
** Corrected file name extension for PNG files

2004-05-15 [larsl] 0.2.0devel19
** Added my picture in the About dialog to attract more female users to QGIS

2004-05-13 [ts] 0.2.0devel18
** Raster properties changes: Switched order of general tab and symbology tab - as you normally change
straight to symbology tab anyway. Removed stats tab and consolidated stats
into metadata tab. Clean ups on metadata tab.

2004-05-13 [ts] 0.2.0devel17
** Raster stats tab now displays pyramid/overview info

2004-05-14 [larsl] 0.2.0devel16
** Cleaned up the enabling/disabling of controls in the GPS dialog
** Changed the order in which different layers are loaded from a GPX file
** Added the basename of the GPX or LOC file in the layer name
** Changed the plugin name to the more general "GPS Tools"

2004-05-14 [larsl] 0.2.0devel15
** Fixed a bug that caused the canvas to have a fixed width of 400 with my
   Qt version - the main grid layout for the main window had one extra column

2004-05-14 [larsl] 0.2.0devel14
** Added a tab for loading GPX and LOC files to the GPS plugin dialog

2004-05-14 [larsl] 0.2.0devel13
** Added a virtual destructor to QgsDataProvider and deleted dataProvider in
   the destructor for QgsVectorLayer

2004-05-13 [larsl] 0.2.0devel12
Changing std::string to QString in GPSData::getData() and GPSData::releaseData() to support Qt libraries built without STL support

2004-05-13 [ts] 0.2.0devel11
** Fixes for segfaults on grid_make and gps_importer dbf creation

2004-05-12 [gsherman] 0.2.0devel10
** Fixes for OS X endian bug (needs further testing)

2004-05-12 [jobi] 0.2.0devel9
** Added endian checks in configure
** decreased versions in the auto* checks

2004-05-12 [ts] 0.2.0devel8
** Added addProject(QString) to plugin interface.

2004-05-05 [jobi] 0.2.0devel7
** Extended qgis-config to expose version

2004-05-04 [ts] 0.2.0devel6
** Added two new internal plugins - North Arrow and Copyright message overlay

2004-05-03 [ts] 0.2.0devel5
** Canvas now emits renderComplete signal when rendering of cnavas has completed,
but before the screen is refreshed. Added accessor and mutators for the canvas
pixmap.

2004-05-03 [ts] 0.2.0devel4
** qgisApp->mapCanvas is now exposed through the plugin interface.

2004-05-03 [ts] 0.2.0devel3
**Added three new widgets to status bar:
scale - which shows the scale in the form 1:50000 *
coordinates - shows coordinates of mouse on map in its own widget
progressbar - shows the progress of any task that emits signals connected to
showProgress slot

**Added signal / slot mechanism for showExtents and set fp precision to 2 (see
below)

** stringRep function in QgsRect and QgsPoint now overloaded to allow setting
floating point precision for display. QgisApp & canvas are currently hard
coding this to 2 but I plan to make this user configurable in the options
panel.

**Added example of using progress indicator to raster stats gathering procedure.
You can see this in action by setting ak_shade example dataset to singleband
pseudocolor and you will see progress indicator advancing as stats are
gathered.

*NOTE: scale calculations may not be correct at this point - they are still
under development.

2004-04-27 [ts] 0.2.0devel2

** Added preliminary support for building pyramids in raster files
using the GDAL overview function. Currently it is hard coded to use Nearest
neighbour algorithm with pyramids at levels  2, 4 and 8. Adding pyramids to
your raster layer can greatly improve rendering performance. This new
functionality is accessed by right clicking on a raster legen entry and
choosing 'Build Pyramids' from the popup menu.

*** PLEASE USE WITH CAUTION ***
This current implementation does not warn you of possible side effects
including:
- possible image degradation if too many pyramids are generated
- possuble large increase in image side
- currently this process IS NOT KNOWN TO BE REVERSIBLE so please backup data
first before experimenting.

2004-04-27 [ts] 0.2.0devel1

** Rejigged single marker symbol so directory, icon selector, preview and 
   scaling widget are all in one panel rather than having to spawn a new
   window to select an icon.

2004-04-27 [ts] 0.2.0devel0

** Fixed broken bits in internal plugin builder template and updated default
   plugin template gui,

Version 0.2 'Pumpkin' .... development version

2004-04-25 [jobi] 0.1.0devel36
** Added i18n tools to EXTRA_DIST
** Updated German translation
** fixed a typo -> other translations changed too

2004-04-22 [jobi] 0.1.0devel35
** added install routine for svg files
** added new translations
** adjusted paths in the cpp files

2004-04-19 [jobi] 0.1.0devel34
** Changed to simple macros for detecting QT and GDAL
** Added code for detecting QGIS as m4 file to tools
** this will be installed together with QT and GDAL detection to
   $prefix/share/aclocal/qgis.m4
   so the plugins can just use those simple unique macros
** updated German translation
!! Developers have to link the installed qgis.m4 to /usr/share/aclocal/
!! or where ever aclocal keeps the m4 files
!! otherwise it's not detected by the plugins autogen.sh (more exactly
!! aclocal)
!! It can be cheated by adding -I path/to/qgis.m4 to the aclocal of
!! autogen.sh. But be carefull not to commit that to CVS

2004-04-18 [jobi] 0.1.0devel33
** Added internationalisations stuff
   Needs some documentation and more translations :-)

2004-04-17 [ts] 0.1.0devel32
** Fix for crash when opening singleband grayscale images introduced by Steves
   fix for crash when opening MULTIBAND_SINGLEBAND_GRAYSCALE images. Thanks to 
   Steves help, all eight raster renderers are now working properly.
   This resolves bug : [ 934234 ] Segfault when drawing multiband image band as
   grayscale

2004-04-06 [ts] 0.1.0devel31
** Added new plugin (grid_maker) to build arbitary sized graticules and add
   them to the current map view.

2004-04-05 [jobi] 0.1.0devel30
** fixed qgiscommit (didn't work when in qgis root)
** cosmetics for qgis-config to be more "standardconform"

2004-04-04 [jobi] 0.1.0devel29
** fixed GRASS provider

2004-04-03 [ts] 0.1.0devel28
** Bug fix (still unconfirmed if it cures the bug!) for raster layer rendering
artifacts.

** Added new color ramper for grayscale and pseudcolor grayscale image called
freak out (its a bit psycadellic at the moment). Last class break ne
eds some work!

2004-04-02 [jobi] 0.1.0devel27
** Added version checks for autoconf, automake and libtool                                                                                                     
** Small bugfixes                                                                                                                                       

2004-04-02 [mcoletti] 0.1.0devel26
Rolling forward QgsFeature::setGeometry() interface change whereby the size of
the well known type geometry binary buffer is also now passed in.

2004-04-02 [mcoletti] 0.1.0devel25
Compensating for QgsFeature::setGeometry() now accepting "size" parameter for
the given binary geometry string.

QgsShapeFileProvider::endian() now uses shorter, standard way of computing
endian-ness.

2004-04-02 [stevehalasz] 0.1.0devel25


2004-04-01 [jobi] 0.1.0devel24
** changed qgiscommit to hopefuly fix all problems

2004-04-01 [jobi] 0.1.0devel23
** Extended tools/qgiscommit to pass parameters to cvs

2004-04-01 [jobi] 0.1.0devel22
** Fixed GRASS plugin and provider build

2004-04-01 [jobi] 0.1.0devel21
** fixed strange warning: object 'foo.$(OBJEXT)' created both
   with libtool and without
** also cleaned the other Makefiles that way

2004-03-31 [jobi] 0.1.0devel20
** fixed small bug
** renamed plugins/gps_importer/shapefil.h to shapefile.h

2004-03-31 [jobi] 0.1.0devel19
A lot of small changes to make release work again
Probably more cleaning in the Makefiles needed

2004-03-27 [ts] 0.1.0devel18
** Fix for cl parameter "snapshot" to ensure events are process (ie canvas is
drawn!) before snapshot is taken.

2004-03-27 [jobi] 0.1.0devel17
** autogen.sh now passes parameters to configure
** fixed tools/qgiscommit by using mktemp, thanx mcoletti
** pluginpath is now taken of libdir to be 64bit compliant (e.g. /usr/lib64/qgis)

2004-03-26 [jobi] 0.1.0devel13
** forgot to remove tempfile

2004-03-26 [jobi] 0.1.0devel12
Removed Newline after statusline
Should work now fine!
Have fun

2004-03-26 [jobi] 0.1.0devel11

Added qgiscommit tool

2004-03-26 [didge] 0.1.0devel10

** Fixed bug #920070
** Made plugin-libdir 64bit compatible (e.g. /usr/lib64/qgis)
   for AMD64 and PPC64 systems

2004-03-22 [mac] 0.1.0devel9

** Added gps_importer plugin (still a work in progress)

2004-03-22 [mac] 0.1.0devel8
** s/config.h/qgsconfig.h/
** qgsconfig.h now has header sentinals
** now will install headers in $(prefix)/qgis/include and libqis.* library in
  $(prefix)/lib
** "src/Makefile" no longer relies on explicit dependencies and uses better
  naming scheme for created source files

2004-03-21 [ts] 0.1.0devel7

** Added thumbnail preview of raster to raster props dialog.
   Added drawThumbnail method to rasterlayer.cpp
   Split (overloaded) draw method in rasterlayer.cpp so that some parts of
   the original draw method could be used by drawThumbnail method too.

** Fixed a bug in the drawing of pseudocolor single band grayscale images that
   prevented all class breaks being displayed.

    
2004-03-10 [gs] 0.1.0devel7
** Added delimited text plugin which provides gui to add delimited text
   layers using the delimited_text data provider
** Changes to delimited_text data provider to support zooming, display
   of attributes, and identifying features. Selecting features does
   not work at this time.
** Auto* changes to support building the delimited text provider and
   plugin
** Minor changes to QgsFeature

2004-03-06 [ts] 0.1.0devel6
** Completed session management of plugins (so active plugins are remembered
   when qgis closes and reloaded in the next session).

2004-03-06 [ts] 0.1.0devel6
** Save state of plugins in ~/.qt/qtrc file (in progress). State is saved,
   just need to implement code to load plugins marked as active during
   application startup.

2004-03-06 [ts] 0.1.0devel6
** Added QgsRasterLayer::filterLayer which gets called near the end of each of
   the 8 renderers. This is the place to inline filters. Note that eventually filters 
   will be hived out to a filter plugin mechanism.

2004-03-06 [didge] 0.1.0devel6
** Changed configure stuff to write DEFINES in config.h.
   Postgresql stuff needs testing as I commented the compileflags in src/Makefile.am
** Infos will be posted on the devel mailinglist

2004-03-04 [ts] 0.1.0devel5
** Added option to options dialog to disable splashscreen.

2004-02-28 [ts] 0.1.0devel5
** --snapshot command line parameter working now and correctly scaling
   snapshot to size of pixmap.
** started moving splashscreen to a global so other classes diring  the startup 
   process can get access to set the splash status. (in progress)

2004-02-28 [gs] 0.1.0devel5
** Refactored QgsField to use new coding conventions
** Documented QgsField (added docs to qgsfield.h)
** Updated doxygen mainpage section in qgis.h
** Added Whats this? help to main application window
** Added providers/delimitedtext and associated source files to CVS

2004-02-27 [gs] 0.1.0devel4
** Corrected debug statements in main.cpp and added a bit of verbiage to the
   help text.
** Removed hard coding of provider types in the QgisApp::addVectorLayer method.
  Caller must now provide compatible arguments that the designated provider can
  use to open the data store and fetch data. Changed QgsPgGeoprocessing class
  to properly call addVectorLayer.

2004-02-27 [ts]
** Changed cl parser to getopt
   Moved project loading out of loop that loads layers - you now need to specify
   --project filename to load a filename. This ensures that you only try to load 
   one project file.
   Added --snapshot filename parameter that will load layers and project files
   specified, take a screenie of the map view and save it to disk as filename - 
   this is under construction still.
   Added saveMapAsImage(QString) to qgisapp so above cl option can be used.
 
2004-02-26 [ts]
** Added a tab to raster layer properties dialog to show metadata about the
   raster layer (using gdal metadata)

2004-02-26 [gs] 0.1.0devel3
** Added Version to configure.in. QGIS now displays its version number based on
   the settings in configure.in

2004-02-24 [gs]
** Search radius for identifying features on vector layers added to Preferences

2004-02-23 [ts]
** Save current view to disk as a PNG image

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Version 0.1 'Moroz' February 25, 2004
**User interface improvements - menu and dialog cleanups and a new icon theme
  based on Everaldo's Crystal icon set.
**QGIS can load layers and / or a project on start up by specifying these
  on the command line.
**Symbol renderers for simple, graduated, and continuous symbols
**Raster support for most GDAL formats
**Raster implementation supports a variety of rendering settings including
  semi transparent overlays, pallette inversion, flexible band to color mapping
  in multiband images and creation of pseudocolor.
**Change to a data provider architecture for vector layers. Addtional data
  types can be supported by writing a provider plugin
**Buffer plugin for PostGIS layers
**PostgreSQL port number can be specified when making connections
**Shapefile to PostGIS Import Tool (SPIT) plugin for importing shapefiles into
  PostgreSQL/PostGIS
**User guide (HTML and PDF)
**Install guide (HTML and PDF)
**Plugin manager to manage loading/unloading of plugins
**Plugin template to automate the more mundane parts of creating a new plugin.
**Numerous bug fixes
**Removed dependency on libpq++ when compiling with PostgreSQL/PostGIS support
**PostgreSQL/PostGIS layers now rely on GEOS for selecting features

Version 0.0.13 December 8, 2003
**New build system (uses GNU Autoconf)
**Improvement to sorting in attribute table
**Persistent selections (shapefiles only)
**Display order can be changed by dragging a layer to a new position in the legend
**Export QGIS view as a Mapserver map file
**Fix for crash on SuSE 9.0 when moving mouse in legend area

Version 0.0.12-alpha June 10, 2003
**Multiple features displayed with the Identify tool
**Identify function returns and displays attributes for multiple
   features found within the search radius
**Fixes to endian handling on big endian machines
**Support for PostgreSQL 7.3 schemas for database layers
**Features in shapefiles can be selected by dragging a selection
  box or selecting the records in the attribute table
**Zoom to extent of selected features (Shapefiles only)
**Bug fix: Bug that prevented reopening of the attribute table once
  it was initally displayed and closed
**Bug fix: Bug that prevented lines from being drawn with widths
  other than 1 pixel
**Build system has changed for building with PostgreSQL support.

Version 0.0.11-alpha June 10, 2003
**Preliminary Plugin Manager implementation
**Version check under tools menu
**Version checking uses port 80 to prevent problems 
   with firewalls
**Fix for PostGIS bug when srid != -1
**Fix for PostGIS LINESTRING rendering
**Database Connections can now be deleted
**Fixes to Database Connection dialog
**Fix for crash when opening a shapefile attribute table 
   twice in succession
**Fix for crash when opening invalid shapefiles

Version 0.0.10-alpha May 13, 2003
*Fixes to project save/open support
*Enhancements to plugin tests
*Fixes to build system (gdal link problem)

Version 0.0.9-alpha January 25, 2003
*Preliminary project save/open support
*Streamlined build system

Version 0.0.8-alpha December 11, 2002
*During repaint, the data store is only accessed if map state or extent
 has changed
*Changes to layer properites aren't effective until the Layer Properties
 dialog is closed
*Canceling the Layer Propeties dialog cancels changes

Version 0.0.7-alpha November 30, 2002
*Changes to the build system to allow building with/without PostgeSQL 
 support

Version 0.0.6a-alpha November 27, 2002
*Fix to build problems introduced at 0.0.6. No new features are included
 in this release.

Version 0.0.6-alpha November 24, 2002
*Improved handling/management of PostGIS connections
*Password prompt if the password is not stored with a connection
*Windows size and position and toolbar docking state is saved/restored
*Identify function for layers
*Attribute table for a layer can be displayed and sorted by clicking on column headers
*Duplicate layers (layers with same name) are now handled properly

Version 0.0.5-alpha October 5, 2002
 * Removing a layer from the map no longer crashes the application
 * Fixed multiple render bug when adding a layer
 * Data source is shown in Layer Properties dialog
 * Display name of a layer can be changed using the Layer Properties dialog
 * Line widths can be set for a layer using the Layer Properties dialog
 * Zoom out now works 
 * Zoom Previous added to toolbar
 * Toolbar has been rearranged and new icons added
 * Help|About QGis now contains Version, Whats New, and License information
 
Version 0.0.4-alpha August 15, 2002
 * Added Layer Properties dialog
 * User can set color for layers
 * Added right-click menu to the layer list in legend
 * Layers can be removed using the right-click menu (buggy)
 * Moved the KDevelop project file qgis.kdevprj to the src sub-directory
 * Fixed multiple repaint bug that occurred when more than one layer was
   added at a time
 * Fixed bug that caused a full refresh at the beginning of a pan operation

Version 0.0.3-alpha August 10, 2002
  * Support for shapefiles and other vector formats
  * Improved handling of extents when adding layers
  * Primitive legend that allows control of layer visibility
  * About Quantum GIS implemented
  * Other internal changes
  
July 26, 2002
  Drawing code now properly displays layers and calculates extents when
  zooming. Zoom is still fixed zoom in rather than interactive.
  
July 20, 2002
  Repaint automatic for layers.
  
July 18, 2002
  Point, line and polygon PostGis layers can be drawn. Still issues with
  map exent and positioning of layers on the canvas. Drawing is manual and
  not tied to the paint event. No zooming or panning yet.
  
July 10, 2002
  Layers can be selected and added to the map canvas collection however
  the rendering code is currently disabled and being reorganized. So if
  you add a layer, nothing will be drawn...
  
July 6, 2002
  This code is preliminary and really has no true functionality other than
  the ability to define a PostGIS connection and display the spatially enabled
  tables that could be loaded. 

  This is the initial import of the code base into CVS on Sourceforge.net.
 vim: set shiftwidth=3 textwidth=75 autoindent:
