Quantum GIS (QGIS)

Building QGIS from source - step by step


%! target       : html
%! style        : style.css
%! Options      : --toc --toc-level 2 --enum-title --css-sugar --css-inside
%! preproc      : TUT_URL   https://qgis.org
%! PostProc(html): '(?i)(<pre>)' '<div class="code">\1'
%! PostProc(html): '(?i)(</pre>)' '\1</div>'
% Next line will replace tabs with 2 spaces in txt generated outputs
%! PostProc(txt): '(?i)(\t)' '  '
%! encoding: iso-8859-1
% These are comments and will not be generated in any output
% -------------------

%This document is in txt2tags format. You can generate html, plain text and
%moinmoin formatted documentation by running txt2tags on this document. See the
%txt2tags home page for more details.  Please insert manual line breaks in this
%document as it makes diffing for changes much easier. To do this in vim 
%automatically, select a section then issue (gq) command. Please don't
%apply vim formatting to the whole document as it screws up some formatting
%rather apply it selectively to paragraphs where needed.

% To generate the text version of this document:
% txt2tags -t txt -o INSTALL INSTALL.t2t
% To generate the mediawiki version of this document:
% txt2tags -t wiki --no-enum-title -o INSTALL.wiki INSTALL.t2t
% To generate the html version of this document:
% txt2tags -t html -o INSTALL.html INSTALL.t2t
% To generate the LaTeX version of this document:
% txt2tags -t tex -o INSTALL.tex INSTALL.t2t

% End of comments
% -------------------

Last update: %%date
Last change: %%mtime

%%toc

= Introduction =

This document is the original installation guide of the described software 
Quantum GIS. The software and hardware descriptions named in this 
document are in most cases registered trademarks and are therefore subject 
to the legal requirements. Quantum GIS is subject to the GNU General Public 
License. Find more information on the Quantum GIS Homepage:
http://www.qgis.org

The details, that are given in this document have been written and verified 
to the best of knowledge and responsibility of the editors. Nevertheless, 
mistakes concerning the content are possible. Therefore, all data are not 
liable to any duties or guarantees. The editors and publishers do not take 
any responsibility or liability for failures and their consequences. You are 
always welcome for indicating possible mistakes.

You can download this document as part of the Quantum GIS 'User and 
Installation Guide' in HTML and PDF format via http://www.qgis.org. A current 
version is also available at the wiki, see:
http://www.qgis.org/wiki/Installation_Guide 

Translations of this document can also be downloaded at the documentation area 
of the Quantum GIS project at http://www.qgis.org. More information is 
available via http://wiki.qgis.org/qgiswiki/DocumentationWritersCorner. 

Please visit http://qgis.org for information on joining our mailing lists 
and getting involved in the project further.

/!\ **Note to document writers:** Please use this document as the central
place for describing build procedures. Please do not remove this notice. 

/!\ **Note to document writers:** This documented is generated from 
doc/INSTALL.t2t - if you need to edit this document, be sure to edit that 
file rather than the generated INSTALL document found in the root of the 
source directory.

%!include: overview.t2t

%!include: linux.t2t

= Building on Windows =
%!include: msvc.t2t
%!include: msys.t2t

%!include: osx.t2t

%!include: git.t2t

%!include: iauthors.t2t
